So next, we're going to be talking through Glacier and Glacier Deep Archive.
So at a high level,
Amazon S3 Glacier is designed for archiving of data
within S3 as a separate storage class.
Now let's talk about what that means.
Let's say, for example,
that your company needs to hold onto payment information from
your customers for one year or for three years.
In those cases, you need to have somewhere to store it,
and you need to be able to produce that data for legal or
compliance reasons, but you're not generally going to go in
and access that on a regular basis.
That is a great use case for archiving data within S3 using Amazon S3 Glacier.
Now the way that this works is that it offers configurable retrieval times.
So with this data,
you won't be able to retrieve it right away, but you can choose to
either retrieve it quickly or retrieve it less quickly,
and you'll pay different based on the choice that you make.
Now you can send files directly,
or you can actually utilize the lifecycle rules in S3
to transition data into S3 Glacier.
Now it does provide two different storage classes, being
S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive.
Let's quickly compare these two different options.
So first of all,
S3 Glacier. It's designed for archival data, and it has a 90‑day
minimum storage duration change. So, we wouldn't just store data
here for a week or for a month.
In this case, it needs to be at least 90 days,
and it can be retrieved in either minutes or hours.
This is where you pay based on the decision that you make,
you would have a higher cost to retrieve in minutes over hours.
Now you do pay a retrieval fee per gigabyte retrieved.
So in this case, in addition to the storage cost,
you do pay to retrieve it. Now,
it will be about five times less expensive than using the S3
Standard storage class, so there is a compelling reason to utilize
this if you do have data that you know you won't need to access at
all except for rare circumstances.
Then we have S3 Glacier Deep Archive,
and this is also designed for archival data.
But in this case,
it has a 180‑day minimum storage duration change, so you're
going to want data here for basically about half a year at
minimum. And in this case,
it can be retrieved in hours, so we don't have the option to get it
back in minutes like we do with S3 Glacier. Here, you also pay a
retrieval fee per gigabyte that you retrieve.
But in this case,
it is over 23 times less expensive than the S3 Standard storage class.
So in this case,
the AWS Management Console can be used to set up S3 Glacier; however,
when we're looking at uploading and retrieving data,
this is where you're going to be using the programmatic approaches,
so either utilizing the CLI or using the SDKs.
This is one of those situations that I alluded to earlier where
there are certain things you can't do within the console that you can do within the other interaction methods.